This database was created for the purpose of holding information for an audio equipment rental business. The business rents out several categories of audio equipment, including microphones, cables, audio interfaces, audio mixers, and speakers, and they need a system that will keep track of all the products that are available for customers to rent out. This database will keep track of these various types of equipment in one table as products, and then keep track of the various types of equipment and their qualities in separate corresponding tables. The model and prices of each product connect these sub-tables to the overarching products table.

The database software I used for this project is DB Browser (SQLite). This is an open-source software that allows for GUI creation of a database, as well as allowing for the coding of databases and the execution of various SQL queries. Using this software allowed me to focus both on the visual aspect of the database creation, and the programming aspect of creating tables and inputting data. In addition to DB Browser, I used Microsoft's VS Code to create my SQL files.

A rough schema for this database is as following. Products will be the overarching table, whilst the other tables (Microphones, Cables, etc.) will represent the different types of equipment found within the database. The primary key for the tables will be “model” with the model being unique for each piece of equipment. The values “model,” "manufacturer," and “price” all serve as foreign keys for the tables and will connect the data for all tables back to the Products table. In all the tables connected to the Products table, different qualities are accounted for in each type of equipment. This will allow customers to easily find a piece of equipment they need based on any requirements they may have for it.

For programming tools used, I used SQLite, a C-based language that is utilized within the DB Browser software. I coded the SQL files myself within VS Code, then imported my table creation file into DB Browser so that I could work with GUI implementation and perform operations on the database. I used DB Browser features to input data into the database, and was then able to run SQL queries to test out CRUD operations within my database. During this project, I used Microsoft Copilot as AI assistance for segments of the code.

In summary, this database was created for an audio equipment rental company that requires a system to keep track of the products they are renting out. I used DB Browser (SQLite) as my database software of choice as well as VS Code to work with my SQL files, and in my schema for the database, I created a Products table that other product type tables will be connected to. I set the model of each product to be the primary key and set "model," "manufacturer," and "price" to be foreign keys connecting the sub-tables back to the information in the Products table. I used the SQLite language and tools within DB Browser for data input and GUI implentation of the database, as well as to run SQL queries. I also used Microsoft Copilot for assistance with some of my code. This database will provide the rental company with a reliable system to keep a record of all the types of equipment they have available to customers.
